Disable Cockpit (#1989)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_disabling-cockpit-on-project.adoc

[id="disabling-cockpit-on-project_{context}"]
= Disabling {CockpitTitle} on {Project}

Perform the following procedure if you want to disable {Cockpit} on {Project}.

.Procedure

> . Disable {Cockpit} with the `{foreman-installer}` command:

Reviewer: If I were to be pedantic, running the installer like this does not actually disable any related functionality. It just makes the installer not enforce the relevant configuration.

Author: Thank you. Updated the procedure :+1:

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
{foreman-installer} --no-enable-foreman-plugin-remote-execution-cockpit
----
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Administer* > *Settings* > *Remote execution*.

> . Erase the value of the *Cockpit URL* setting.

Reviewer 2: Does this even matter?

Reviewer: Sadly, yes. Some UI elements appear only when it is set

Author: The procedure was taken from https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2168503

> . Uninstall the {Cockpit} package from {Project}:

Reviewer 2: If we support uninstalling, I wonder if we should enhance the installer to do this. Technically it's possible to ensure a state of a package. Right now there's no parameter to ensure it's absent, but we can implement it.

Author: It was mentioned in the BZ that it is not probable that the fix will be coming anytime soon. In the meantime it would be good to have a workaround.

Reviewer 2: I thought it should be easy to write, so I did: https://github.com/theforeman/puppet-foreman/pull/1111. I must admit I didn't test it yet, but it should work with `--foreman-plugin-remote-execution-cockpit-ensure absent`.

Author: Understood. I will hold off working on this PR then.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if it will land in Foreman 3.6 and certainly not in 3.5, so it may be ok to document this for 3.5. Though I do think we can do better in supporting functionality in the tool itself rather than documenting "workarounds".

Author: I of course agree with that.

Author: So, what is the next step? Is this procedure good to go?

Reviewer 2: I think so.

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> {package-remove} rubygem-foreman_remote_execution-cockpit

Reviewer 2: The package name is different on Debian, but given we don't package it at all on Debian I'd hide the whole chapter on `foreman-deb`.

Author: Done :+1:

----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
{Cockpit} integration can be independently enabled or disabled on {SmartProxyServer}s.
To prevent enabling {Cockpit} integration on a {SmartProxyServer}, run the following command after completing the procedure:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
{foreman-installer} --foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-cockpit-integration=false
----

> ====

Author: For 3.5 only.

[id="disabling-cockpit-on-project_{context}"]
= Disabling {CockpitTitle} on {Project}

Perform the following procedure if you want to disable {Cockpit} on {Project}.

.Procedure
. Run this `{foreman-installer}` command:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
{foreman-installer} --no-enable-foreman-plugin-remote-execution-cockpit
----

> . In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Administer* > *Settings* > *Remote execution*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Administer* > *Settings* and click the *Remote execution* tab.
```

> . Erase the value of the *Cockpit URL* setting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. In the *Cockpit URL* row, erase the setting under *Value* and click *Submit*.
```
